Chief complaint trip and fall

HPI 79-year-old female presents into the emergency department after a slip and fall that occurred last night while she was trying to get ready for bed. Patient states that she has a history of peripheral neuropathy and she simply tripped on her foot and fell down to hit her face on the dresser. She states she was unable to get up from the ground and get into bed or a couch and spend the night on the ground. Denies any loss of consciousness. She states that she did not allow our housemate to call 911 last night but this morning she was still unable to get up so they called today. Only pain at this time she reports to be in her low back. Denies any loss of consciousness. Any history of anticoagulation or prior head injury.

Past medical history includes hypertension, hyperlipidemia, peripheral neuropathy, vitamin D, deficiency, diabetes.

Physical exam.
Patient awake alert, oriented in no acute distress.
Extract clear muscles are intact with no diplopia.
There is an abrasion above the left orbit and there is ecchymosis surrounding the left orbit and tracking down the left side of the face with associated infra orbital tenderness.
Tolerate full range of motion in the neck with no midline, cervical thoracic or lumbar tenderness, palpation step off or deformity.
Normal peripheral perfusion.
Non-labored, respirations with equal bilateral chest rise


Medical decision-making
79 year-old female, presenting into the emergency department after slip and fall at home last night.
Differential diagnosis includes intracranial, hemorrhage, fracture, contusion, AI, dehydration, non-exertional rhabdomyolysis

Imaging is significant for no acute traumatic injuries, patient feels improved after IV hydration, her creatinine is slightly elevated, CK is slightly elevated. Patient is reserved to hear in the emergency department for four hours and remains hemodynamically stable. Basic metabolic panel and creatinine kinase is repeated And both are slightly improved after hydration. i’ve offered the patient admission for further ongoing hydration and trending of labs. However, she declines at this time and prefers discharge with close outpatient follow up.

Additional history obtained from EMS.
I have personally viewed and interpreted the labs, imaging, EKG and discussed all test results with the patient and updated her on the expected disease course.

Disposition discharged to home.

Diagnosis 
fall from standing
Facial contusion
Dehydration.
Traumatic rhabdomyolysis.
Acute kidney injury
