Subjective
Chief Complaint: Sore throat 
History of Present illness: 15-year-old female patient presents with 2 days of worsening sore throat. She first noticed the sore throat upon waking yesterday morning and says that the pain has gotten worse despite taking over the counter acetaminophen and using cough drops. Today she has had pain when she swallows and says it almost feels like food is "getting stuck." She has been able to eat and drink, although she can only take soft food. She is not sure whether she has had any fevers, but she did feel chilled last night and again this morning. She denies any swollen glands or difficulty moving her neck. 
Past Medical History:  Seasonal allergic rhinitis, worse in the spring. 
Past Surgical History: Appendectomy at age 5, no complications
Family History: Father with type 2 DM, mother with rheumatoid arthritis
Social History: She lives with her mother (parents are divorced) and younger sister. She is not sexually active. She does not smoke, vape, or use alcohol, marijuana or other recreational/illicit drugs. 
LMP:  ~ 1 week ago 
Medications: She takes a daily multivitamin for teens
Allergies: No known allergies to medications or foods. 
Review of Systems:
	General: + for fatigue and malaise, +chills, no fevers; no weight gain or loss. 
HEENT: + for sore throat and difficulty swallowing. No congestion or rhinorrhea. No ear pain. No vision changes. No Neck stiffness. 
	Respiratory: No cough, wheezing, or shortness of breath
	Cardiac: No chest pain, palpitations or syncope
Gastrointestinal: + mild nausea. No vomiting, diarrhea or constipation. No abdominal pain. Normal appetite. 
	Endocrine: No polyuria or polydipsia
	Neurology: +headache. No dizziness, numbness or tingling. 
	Hematology/Oncology:  No swollen glands or easy bruising or bleeding
	Skin:  No rash or other skin changes
	Musculoskeletal:  No joint pain or muscle pain
	Psychiatric:  No major stressors or mood changes

Objective
Vital signs:  HR 102 bpm, RR 14 bpm, BP 108/72, Temp 101.4F, PulseOx 98%, Height, Weight, BMI, BMI%
Physical Examination:
	General: Well nourished, well developed. Tired appearing but in no distress
	Head: Normal appearance, no trauma or lesions
Neck: Supple. + tender anterior lymphadenopathy bilaterally . No thyromegaly or masses
	Eyes: PERRL, no conjunctival erythema or discharge
Ears:  Normal external canals bilaterally, tympanic membranes with normal landmarks & no erythema or bulging
Nose: Mild erythema and edema of the turbinates bilaterally with scant clear rhinorrhea. No lesions.
Mouth/Throat: Dentition grossly intact. No oral lesions. Posterior oropharynx is erythematous with 2+ tonsillar hypertrophy bilaterally and patchy, scattered exudates. + palatal petechiae.
Lungs: Normal work of breathing. Lungs are clear to auscultation bilaterally with no wheezing, rales, rhonchi. Normal air excursion. 
	Heart: Regular rate and rhythm. Mildly tachycardic. No murmurs, rubs, or gallops
Abdomen: Non-distended. Normal bowel sounds in all 4 quadrants. Non-tender to palpation with no organomegaly or masses
	Skin: No rash on exposed skin
	Musculoskeletal: Moving all four extremities normally
	Extremities: Warm and well perfused, with normal pulses and normal capillary refill
	Neuro:  Appropriately alert and interactive for age. Normal gait, balance and speech
	Psych:  Mood and affect are euthymic.

Laboratory Tests: Rapid strep test + 
Radiology Tests: Not indicated 

Assessment: 
Otherwise healthy 15 year old female with acute streptococcal pharyngitis. 

Plan: 
-	1000mg Amoxicillin daily. X 10 days. 
-	Ibuprofen 400-600mg every 6-8 hours as needed for pain (take with food)
-	Increase fluids & use throat lozenges for comfort
-	May return to school after 12-24 hours of antibiotics, as long as she is fever-free off of antipyretics and feeling better
-	Counselled on the importance of completing antibiotics 
-	Return to clinic as needed if symptoms worsen or fail to improve within 24-48 hours
