Chief complaint.
Jaw, clenching this morning, patient concern for seizure.

HPI
This is a 77-year-old female, the history of a prior stroke with prior seizure since into the emergency department after feeling her jaw clenching this morning. She thinks that it may have been seizure activity, however, was very different from prior seizures that she has experienced. She states she’s never had jaw spasm like this before. She does have a dysarthria and aphasia from prior stroke at her baseline which she states unchanged. She reports that she’s been compliant with her Keppra. She denies any recent infection or fever. Her husband states that she’s had similar symptoms in the past and they were unable to find any diagnosis.

Hospital medical history
Seizure
Stroke.

Physical exam.
Patient awake alert while appearing in no acute distress.
Pupils are equal round reactive, extractive muscles are intact.
Speech is with mild dysarthria, mild aphasia, patient reports at her baseline, strength and sensation are normal in all upper and lower extremities, face is symmetrical, oropharynx is clear.
Normal professional, perfusion, regular rate and rhythm.
Non-labored respirations with equal chest rise.

Medical decision-making.
Is the 77-year-old female with history of prior stroke and prior seizures presents into the emergency department after a transient spasm of her jaw
Differential diagnosis includes muscle spasm, dehydration, occult infection, electrolyte, abnormalities, and cranial hemorrhage, low suspicion for focal seizure

Patient has had no recurrence of her symptoms during the emergency department. EKG shows a sinus rhythm. Chemistry and CBC are reassuring. Component is negative. CT is negative for acute process. Your analysis is without signs of infection. I’ve offered the patient and her husband further observation, however they are more comfortable at this time with discharge. We will follow up with her neurologist as an outpatient. They are understanding of return precautions.

Independent history obtained from EMS, patient’s husband, patient’s aid.
I’ve independently viewed interpreted the labs, EKG, all imaging.

Discussed all test results with patient and her husband And updated on expected disease course.

Disposition discharged home.

Diagnosis
Facial spasm
